[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: I'm Brian Holt,
been a web developer professionally for
about five to six years now.
Previous is at Reddit up until
about 18 months ago Recently
relocated to San Francisco
from Salt Lake City.
Everyone here in Minnesota
knows what it means to be cold,
so I eventually escaped that and
got to San Francisco.
But yep, now working at Netflix,
super fun.
I work on the non-member experience,
which is
like every time you log in to Netflix or
manage your account, I do all that stuff.
Or I'm on the team of people that
does that stuff, I should say.
If you haven't already,
please open this link.
The other disclaimer is
I'm a little congested,
so if I sound that way, it's because I am.
So yes, please open this,
it's just gonna take you to this web page.
You can also just open that URL,
this just seemed a little
bit easier to type up there.
Cool, and this is meant to be
an interactive workshop so
those of you who have questions,
please ask them as you have them.
Just raise your head and I'll tell
you to shut up or to ask a question,
one of the two.
And then for those you that
eventually watch this later,
feel free to ask me on Twitter,
send me an email, all that kind of stuff.
I'm always available to answer questions,
cool.
Well, let's get going.
Clear that, okay, so
four semesters of computer science.
It's kind of an ambitious title, and
hopefully most of your bullshit detectors
are going off and saying like you
can't do four semesters in six hours.
Well, first of all,
we're gonna do four semesters and
the other thing is we aren't gonna do six
hours, it'll probably longer than that.
So lies on both accounts, but hopefully we
can still get something useful for you.
Why I wrote this workshop.
I wrote it because I'm super frustrated.
I mean, I originally wrote it cuz I'm
frustrated with the interview process for
becoming an engineer.
They ask a lot of these stupid,
super algorithmic questions that, for
the most part, don't really apply
to most of your day to day work.
I mean we asked some of them at Netflix
because it actually does apply to
some of the stuff we do at Netflix,
like to receive graph is
super important at Netflix.
But, for example, what I did Reddit,
a lot of the stuff had absolutely
zero to do with what I was doing, and
yet that was one of the questions
they asked in my interview process.
So all that to say this class
is to help you prepare for
those kind of terrible interviews [LAUGH].
Beyond that, I think these are useful
concepts to know because computer
science is a science of tradeoffs.
That's obviously an oversimplification,
but
I also think that generally holds true
that, should I have more readable code?
Should it go faster?
Should it take less memory?
Well, the answer to that question
is it totally depends on what
you're doing, right?
I'm gonna say 90% of the time, 95% of the
time, it should be the most readable code.
One of my personal code heroes,
who's taught here multiple times,
Kyle Simpson, said that code is more for
the person that has to maintain it
than it is for the computer, right?
It's more communication for
the person that comes after you,
whether that's you yourself later or
someone else.
And so I think always err on
the side of more readable code.
And then today we're gonna talk about
how to not write readable code, right?
Because algorithms get
to be kind of crazy.
So all that to say is this is useful
to help you kinda make tradeoffs in your
head when you start going through writing
really complicated things, things that
need to go faster, that sort of thing.
So again, this is a bit of disservice
to professors out there that
do actually teach real
computer science courses.
This is not actually four semesters but
that is before I dropped
out of college [LAUGH].
So I should add that disclaimer as well,
is that I did drop out of college.
But I got enough computer science to be
able to teach this course, so don't worry.
These are the things I learned in my first
four semesters of computer science, so
that's where the title comes from as well.
But it is total clickbait,
right there, clickbait title.
This class is most helpful if
you already know JavaScript.
But we are gonna talk about some ES6
things, cuz I think they're fun and
I will just kind of briefly
touch on what those are.
This class is not about ES6.
You should watch one of Front End Masters
other very wonderful courses on the ES6.
But I will briefly explain whatever
ES6 concepts I do touch on.
>> Brian Holt: And lastly,
you should just read this book.
Corman's Intro to Algorithms, that's hard
to read but the link's on the website so.
It's free, it's on MIT's website,
you can get a PDF of it.
It's huge, by the way, do not download
it on Front End Masters' wifi, cuz, or
else our class is gonna be really sad.
It's just one of those things
that it's long, it's kind of dry.
It's a textbook dry but just read it.
I swear, if you read that just once,
it's gonna serve you your entire career.
It's gonna make you a better developer.
You just have to pay the tax and
do it once.
I've read it a couple times, not recently,
so I probably should do it again.
But it's gonna basically, for a frontend
developer today, that's gonna be way more
knowledge than you're actually even gonna
need, but it's gonna be super helpful.
But this is a good place to start.
This is gonna show you that the mental
gymnastics of algorithms, I think's fun.
It's fun to reason through these.
They're puzzles, right?
I'm asking you to rearrange numbers in
interesting ways and it's kind of like
some sort of a really bad crossword
puzzle or something like that.